---
layout: post
tags:
 - blawg
 - personal
title: Power Hungry
---

I'm a people pleaser. At least professionally. Depending on which school
of psychology to which you subscribe (was that correct English?), my
mindset and behaviour could be attributed to a variety of "issues":

One would be a personal insecurity, either originating in childhood or from poor self image;
striving to find self-worth through others' praise; hoping for scraps
from the table of those to whom I am prostrating myself...

Another might be that, by kissing enough ass, I might one day attain 
some socioeconomic goal towards which I have been striving (damn, I'm
good with the prepositional phrases today!).

Another might be that I value others' more than I value myself, some
sort of masochistic martyr, who through my own subservience, I find my
own self-worth.

Whatever. Maybe it's a combination of all of those, plus many others
which I might not even be able to delineate. Point being: even when I
actively try to *NOT* do this, I often put others and their interests
before my own. Crazy is as crazy does: and for some reason, I have been
programmed to behave in such a way that when I am faced with a decision
that forces me to choose between others and myself, I inevitably choose
others.

I realize the choice; I realize the consequences; and I may resent my
choice; but inevitably I choose the choice that the other party would
want me to choose. Like I'm some sort of robot, who, in addition to
Asimov's three laws, I have added a forth: Put Others Before Yourself.

There have been times when I have broken what I shall now refer to as
the Forth Law. And they have been accompanied by much pensivity, i.e.,
much guilt. When I come to a choice that forces me to choose, and I
realize that non-choice is a choice, and so I choose, but I choose a
"selfish" route, I am then plauged by the other-future; a haunting
spectre of "what if?" wherein I was not such a sunuvabitch and instead
gave a damn about others.

But that's the thing! Damnit if I don't feel like I givea damn all the
damn time! But, I have recently been realizing: there is a limit to what
I can give. I wrote about the other morning, last week, during which I
faced this same sort of decision: do the thing you feel you need to do,
or do the thing that, if you don't do it, you'll have to explain to
someone else why you didn't do it.

And that latter part is exactly what I have been thinking about ever
since. It's why I can no longer say that I "work" here. Even before
this, I have always considered myself a "volunteer" in that my
participation is entirely voluntary. The rest of my family may or may
not get paid, I cannot say for sure, because that's not my deal; all I
know is that I have *not* been getting paid, nor have I been asking for
payment. Why?

Money is a funny thing. A the most basic, physical level, it's paper, or
metal, or whatever. You've had that feeling where you feel in your
pocket, and are like "oh! money!" but it's a scrap of paper that you
wrote somebody's facebook on? Or where you are walking down the street
and you see some random plug of metal, or maybe even bubblegum, and are
like "oh money!" and then you realize what it is? Yeah. That's what
money is. Random scraps of paper and metal we find on the ground.

But if you did indeed find money (and not bubblegum), oh, the places you
will go! Like, to the nearest taproom to get a pint. And that's the
thing: these pieces of paper and scraps of metal -- as pretty as they
might have been designed -- are somehow useful in trading for goods and
services. How the f...... ?

Well, because, on the next level, money is some sort of conspiracy; a complicit
concordance between companions who complacently create a conduit of
credence... or whatever. That is to say: we agree that this thing means
something. But why?

Well, first off, perhaps because of the very un-obvious: beceause that's
how we were raised!! Don't underestimate the assumptions that you have
due to the culture and systems in which you grew up. But good luck!
Because knowing what it is that you don't know is in and of itself a
challenge!

But there's another reason: and that is, according to whatever
structures are in place, we participate in a system in which the laws of
alchemy apply: "Humankind cannot gain anything without first giving
something in return. To obtain, something of equal value must be lost."
And that's the ultimate representation of the game which we are playing,
no? We exchange our time and efforts in the mindset that that's
necessary in order to get what we want.

"If you always exchange your time for money, you will never have enough
of either."

That quote also rings of the idea of the work-life balance of which
there are a million articles (and of which, I've read, like, a tonne).
But point is: when you are always thinking about work (and, if even
subconsciously, the money you are earning there), you have a hard
time making sure that you are giving enough attention to the rest of
your life: yourself, your SO, your family, your hobbies, the world...

And that's the thing, right? It's "time and efforts". That's the real
currency we're discussing here. It's not that the piece of paper is real
to us, nor that we really feel like we are fairly exchanging whatever it
is we are doing for whatever amounts of paper we're receiving (because,
let's face it, we *all* feel like we are being underpaid)... but it's
that basic exchange that we sometimes forget about: exchanging our
INFINITELY FINITE resources of "time and efforts" for some valuless
object which we then use however we wish.

And that's just it. It's a trade; voluntary. We decide to participate in
this system in which we exchange our "time, efforts, and energy" for
paper to trade for other things, which other people then use to trade
for other things, and so on, and so forth, and that's Econ 101.

But for me... it's that idea of trading which I, somehow, for some
reason, have become skeptical. Really? My precious time and my precious
energy, you want me to commit, to you, in exchange for... wait, what?
No, really? Hmm. Thanks, but not thanks.

I'm still figuring things out, to be sure. But one thing that I realize
is that: commitments, whether they are for your time or your money
(e.g., a job, or a loan), represent a sort of drain on the "personal
power" that you contain.

It's a natural right of evey human being to retain these powers; yet we
voluntarily give them up in exchange for goods and services...

So, in a sense, money is a representation of our humanity... which can
then be perverted and exploited...

... most of all, by ourselves ...


