---
 layout: post
 title: The Day
---

I gave my 2-weeks notice to my employer of 520 days AND announced to my spouse my intent to "dissolve" our marriage of 2,692 days -- within the same 12 hours. Considering I was born 9,581 days (828 million seconds) ago, those people represent 5.4% and 28% of my life, respectively.

I said the same thing to both of them: We've had great tiemz, but I think it's important that we recognize that we're not really going in the same direction anymore; I honestly hope we can still be friends. I am so appreciative of your company and companionship on this leg of my journey, but this is where I get off.

These were both very tough decisions to make. I spent a lot of time thinking, discussing, reasoning, and experimenting with trying to make things work. Rationally (subjectively) these are the correct decisions; yet internally, fear and doubt were ever present: "You have no idea what the fuck you're doing, do you shithead?"; "You're going to regret this for the rest of your pathetic, worthless life"; "Well that settles it: you're out of your god damn mind"; "Good job dickhead, you just threw away the best things that ever happened to you."

But I knew those voices were wrong. I had been listening to them for a long time. They have always been just as insulting, they just haven't always been quite so loud. That's why I was still where I was long after I had already come to the conclusion that I needed to move on; that's why I could only see short-fallings when I looked in the mirror. What could I do but grit my teeth, strengthen my resolve and have the difficult conversations that I knew I needed to have?

I don't feel that I gave up: I was not in despair saying "oh, we'll never make it"; instead, I decided: this is no longer something I want to spend my time and efforts pursuing. I don't feel like I've failed: I have had many ups and downs, but I have learned and grown so much that I can't help but feel grateful. I don't feel like I "threw it all away": my memories and knowledge of those experiences are still a huge part of who I am today and thus who I will be tomorrow.

Instead, if we must use metaphors, I would use that of a book: I am finishing the chapter that I started the night Franklin died. That chapter involved pain, loss, helplessness, hopelessness, bruises, capitulation, frustration, claustrophobia, anger: fear. That chapter is over for me.

I am ready for a new chapter. I am ready for collaboration, community, connection, joy, hope, creation: love. I am ready to be the change I want to see in the world.

I do not accept that things are the way are just because that's the way things are. I believe that this world and this life is what we make of it. I am ready to devote myself and my life to... what? Of that I am not yet sure. It may or may not be trumpets blaring from the heavens declaring "This is what you were put on this earth to do!" There may or may not be any one thing (or anything at all, for that matter) that I am "meant" to do.

What I do know is that if I keep listening for the winds of change; if I allow my attention wander and really take in the landscape around me; if I keep looking for and choosing the road less traveled -- then I will be more likely to find what I am looking for than in my previous headphones-in, eyes-on-my-phone, sidewalk-navigating state.

I realize that these big changes in my life do not change who I am. I can not and should not "run away" from who I am. Instead, I need to spend time learning who I am -- really. I need to learn to accept who I am -- the good and the bad. And I need to learn to love who I am -- for only through that can I learn to love the Other. The journey to the Self is the greatest of them all.

I'm ready to continue that journey. I realize there will be new types of challenges; new opportunities and new choices; new highs and new lows. What I do not plan to write into this new script are the same mistakes I have made in the past: Waste of time; Waste of mind; Waste of resources; Waste of energy.

I hope to see some of the same characters again -- including you if you're still interested in being a part of my story. But I also hope to meet a lot of new characters who are heading the same direction: onward, and foreword.
