---
layout: post
tags:
 - blawg
 - personal
title: Why So Tired?
---

I left NYC for Guatemala a week ago, and for that entire time one common thread has linked each of my days: I've been incredibly tired. I wish to understand the underlying cause of my situation in order to either accept it or change it. When searching for the root cause in circumstances like this, it's best to examine and rule out all possibilities. As Sherlock Holmes would say, whatever is left, however improbable, is your answer. So here lies an attempt to explain the inexplicable: why am I so tired? 

The first possible reason should really not be affecting me due to its diminutive nature in both the scope and magnitude: jet lag. I merely went from Eastern Time to Central Time -- a change of only an hour. Even if that were enough to be the root cause, I should have adjusted by now, so I'm ruling this one as busted.

It is possible that the efforts involved in my travels to this place are to blame. Indeed, I was in-between beds for a good 60 hours (Friday morning to Sunday night.) I did get some sleep during that time, but it was on a plane, or a bus, or in an airport, and amounted to only an hour or two at a time -- enough to keep the batteries from completely running out, but not enough to keep them comfortably charged. However, even given the difficulties my body endured during that period, that was a week ago, and I should have recovered quite suitably by now. Indeed, as I understand it, the body needs only one good night of sleep to make up for any given amount of lack previous. Based on this evidence, I reject that this is why I am still tired every day.

Regarding sleep, it's true that I was regularly sleeping abnormal hours. In my search to find where I was going to go next (with an ever-approaching deadline, which I only barely met), I was staying up till 3, 4, 5, or sometimes 6 in the morning, and subsequently sleeping until noon. These hours are not unfamiliar to me -- indeed, I would say, they are almost my natural waking hours; in the past, I have done some of my best "work" between the hours of 12am and 4am. Perhaps it is merely the shift from 12pm-4am to 7am-10pm that is the cause of my constant state of tire. If that were the case, though, just as with the jet lag or travel issues, would not my body have adjusted to this new timetable by now? I would think so, and thus I rule this out as significantly contributing to the issue.

Perhaps it is not the hours of sleep but the quality of sleep that is to be questioned. It's true that the bed I had been using for the past month was extremely comfortable; it was most likely purchased from one of those infomercials late at night. In contrast, I will confess (though not complain) that my current bed / pillow combination does leave some things to be desired in the areas of support and comfort. That said, I have slept on worse (e.g., at camp, or in college) and have been perfectly content. Is there a correlation between the quality of sleep and the duration necessary? That is to say, do you need less sleep if it is of higher quality? And if so, does having more of poor sleep make up for its being poor? I am not sure how to answer these, so for now, I will leave this as a "maybe".

It may seem unintuitive to mention, but perhaps that the 9 hours I am getting may actually be more than I need. I know that I have experienced situations where I am more awake, energetic, and alert when I have had less sleep (e.g., 2 hours) than when I have had more (e.g., 12 hours). I do not know the medical / psychological reasons that cause this lethargy from over-sleep, nor do I know whether 9 hours constitutes too much sleep. Perhaps it is worth experimenting with the duration of sleep: if I got up at 6am instead of 7am, maybe I would feel more awake by the time my brain is required to be responsive (8am). I'm going to leave this as "to be determined" pending results of an experiment.

Perhaps my being exhausted all day is simply due to the fact that for the past week my cerebral cortex has been in overdrive. A week ago at this time, I getting on a plane to a new part of the world, with a new culture, with a new language. Suffice to say, for my brain, the past 7 days have been a non-stop deluge of new-ness. During almost every moment in my day, I have been required to process new signals, forge new cognitive pathways, and activate new synapses. I have required my brain to find patterns in what otherwise seems to me like gibberish; to identify words and phrases to map to my existing lexicon of concepts; and to take a complex thought, translate it using a limited vocabulary, then produce that thought audibly. It's like when you are running a lot of things on your computer, and you start to hear your computer's fans speed up because the processor is beginning to overheat. Perhaps this stimulus overload, and the effort in listening / speaking required to communicate here are responsible for my state of constant fatigue. The good news, in this arena, is that if this is the case, my problems should lessen each day as I become more familiar with the language and am requiring less cognitive capacity to simply exist. I'm going to say: yeah, I think this is a significant contributor to my state of fatigue, and I am looking forward to the time when it is not as much of a factor.

I am taxing my body not only mentally, but also physically through changes in diet and physical exertion. In NYC, on the whole, I usually ate a lot of fatty foods and carbs, and the most energy expended was to go tho the grocery store to get more food. Boo me. Here, the food is wonderful, but much leaner (lots of rice and beans); and while I am only doing physical labor in short bursts, it still is more than my body has been used to for a while. Perhaps this simple change of more energy expended with less energy consumed is a cause of my need to sleep; maybe it is my body's way of conserving energy until returning to the status quo. Well, sorry to have to break it to you, body, you may as get used to it, because I am not planning on going back to that same lifestyle any time soon. So you may as well get over it and start acknowledging that this is the way things are now. The good news is that if this is the case, then it's just a matter of time before I am able to adjust to the new normal.

Perhaps the physical exertion by itself is not enough to cause this fatigue, but when combined with the weather, the effects felt are amplified. It was quite a contrast, coming from NYC where it was below freezing when I left (and, I heard they recently got a blizzard of 10-15 inches) to Peten, Guatemala, where the air feels like summer and the sun feels like, well, the surface of the sun. Perhaps it could be that the change in weather caused my body to freak out; though just like jet lag, I should have recovered by now. Perhaps, then, it's simply the fact that the heat is draining, and that any minute spent in the sun costs the energy equivalent of about 15 regular minutes spent in the shade. Guatemalans do tend to stick to the shade as much as possible, so that could very well be the case. I am going to count this as a "yes": the heat makes me more tired. The bad news here is that it's Winter here -- and when the Summer comes, the "real heat" comes with it -- so hot you can fry an egg in the street. Really not looking forward to experiencing that...

Then comes the difficult one to address, simply because I am just smart enough to trick myself. Could my constant state of tiredness be the physical manifestation of psychological issues? Am I emotionally drained? Am I stressed out? Am I depressed? I'm going to say yes to all of those with the caveat that I don't feel like I am. The past 3 months for me have been incredibly emotional, stressful, and, if you feel like going there, depressing. For the recent past, though, I have felt very optimistic. Even while I am unsure of my future, I have no doubts that it will be a bright one. Even while I am struggling with my past, I am remembering good experiences; trying to hold on to the good memories; keeping the important lessons; and letting the rest of it dissolve away into the stream of life. If I let myself dwell on the negative aspects of my life right now, I could potentially get lost forever in replaying past events, questioning past decisions, and worrying about my future. Instead, I am deciding to forgive my past, accept my future, and simply live my present.

So why am I so tired? Because I'm living. That's not so inexplicable, now, is it? 

