---
 layout: post
 title: Anti-Buddha
---

I can't quite describe exactly what is going on, and how I feel about
it, but I'll give it a shot.

So, I'm stuck in some sort of very intersting warp in the space-time
continuum. (Yes, cool word, right? Continuum. Like Vacuum.). Entonces...

This particular warp is called Supertramp Hostel in Aguas Calientes -- I
mean, "Machupicchu Pueblo" -- in Cuzco Region, Peru. That's the where,
or the "space" part of "space-timee".

The when, or "time", part is a bit difficult to place. There are things
like electricity, and running water, and the Internet, and Justin
Bieber, and stuff. But that's not the particular thread of the fabric of
spacetime that I'm talking about.

More specifically, I'm talking about my personal yin-yang continuum
(again, love that word); as well as what part of Acissej I'm seeing.

But I'm getting ahead of myself.

So for me, personally, I'm getting to experience a huuuuuge amount of
the same experiences I had when I was younger, only this time I am
older, and I have learned from the past experiences. This means that I
am becoming more confident and moral in my actions; more mature and
open-minced in my toughts; and more contemplative about what I want and
how I should live. I guess in this way, getting old hasn't been so bad
so far. "I disagree," say my knees who had a fantastic time going up and
down Machupicchu Monta√±a. Entonces...

Really, the only thing unique about this hostel are the people that come
through here. That, and that we give you an egg (of the style of your
choice) in the morning. Que rico.

The people can vary in personalities from big-city American "ultra-lite
backpackers" and have been planning this trip using Frommers for the
pasdt 6 months; to Brazilian hippies who sneak up to the ruins at night,
so they don't have to pay the entrance fee.

As the barman, I am privleged to get to know a decent percentage of the
*total* people who stay here and, I would say, the majority (if not all
of) the *interesting* people who stay here. Often, I get to know people
who don't live here as well, which is just as well, because intersting
people sometimes decide not to stay here. Entonces...

The most difficult part about my situation, I would proffer, is that the
people that I meet, interesting or not, only stay for a short time. My
guess would be that 90% of people stay just one night; 9% stay two
nights; and 0.999999999 repeating people stay three or more nights. An
almost insignificant (and yet quite significant, in the long run) of
people actually stay here forever after they come here.

I don't know if I belong to that last group, but I do know that as
someone who is in the %0.99, I get to see some very intersting patterns
arise that other people who don't stay here for longer than two days
really get to see. I see intersting cultural things, for sure, but more
on topic, I see intersting things in and between people. (Wait, doesn't
that define culture? But I digress...)

One of the most interesting phenomenons that I have witnessed has been a
change within myself. I think -- I'm not sure on this one, so don't hold
me to it, I'm only just conjecturing at this point -- but I *think* that
I am beginning to learn how to love again. Crazy, I know. But I don't
have any other way to describe what I am feeling.

If you were to look back a long time, to things I felt, and things I
wanted to feel, they might be more in tune with each other then than
they are now. Now, I'm not sure what I want to feel, except that I want
to feel something. And what I'm feeling doesn't feel that good, so I am
questioning whether or not I actually want to be able to feel in the
first place.

That's the thing about this thing we call love. It hurts. Forget the
anti-christ; love is the anti-buddha; it is the desire that causes pain;
it is the tie to this world that you would never break, not even if
breaking it meant enlightenment and nirvana, and holding into it meant
devolving into a ciqueda.

And I can see myself beginning to have those feelings again. I'm not
saying I want them; I'm not saying I *don't* want them. I'm only saying
that it's weird, cause I haven't felt this way in a long time.

Even weirder, and without really explaining this too much, but for
everyone that I have felt this feeling for, I can explain, on paper,
what about them is causing me to feel this way, and can therefore
diagnos the cause of the symptom. But I can't explain why, each time, I
see that...

I have done this before
and I will do this again
and this time...

...I never could finish that phrase.

