---
layout: post
tags:
 - blawg
title: Eleventh Commandment
---

These past few days have been trying. It's been festival "de la cruz"
since May 1st. The first day, I was like "oh, how cute and native" like
a dumb gringo. There were little marching bands playing little songs
with people in native garb dancing in front of the parade which wound
throughout town. I was content to watch and imbibe of the local
festivities as a nice distraction from the day to day. Little did I know...

By the second day (of the exact same thing), I began wondering what the
meaning of it all was. I asked a local friend and was informed that the
woman dancing in front (all masked and whatnot) represented the
housewife who never cooked or cleaned and only partied. The man dancing
with her was named *Policia* (not to be confused with the actual
police), and represented a borracho, a.k.a. a drunkard. My
interpretation was that this festival was some sort of "moral play"
about how we all need to be functioning members of society.

By the third day, people were letting loose. In fact, about half of the
town was no longer working, but was instead dancing and drinking all
day, in various locations. The marching band became noticably worse and
beer bottles became more or less an accessory in one hand while they
tried to play the trombone using the other hand. That day (not night) is when the
dance clubs really started pumping up the tunes, so you had competing,
conflicting soundwaves carrying throughout the valley. I started recording this indiginous white noise for a friend who works
with that medium. Funny still, I was sure that after three days, it
would come to an end and things would resume their normal place here.

The fourth day rolls around, and there seems to be no stopping them.
From about noon to midnight, they are marching, drinking, blaring, and
dancing. I'm starting to get angry, and violent. I hatch a plot to
mob-rush the band, grab their instruments, and throw them into the
river. Like any poorly-planned mob activity, I did not coordinate enough
participants, so the plan lay un-executed. Tal vez for another day.
Hopefully there won't be one.

Today is Cinco de Mayo. Yesterday was officially "May the 4th be with
you", and tomorrow will be "Revenge of the 6th" (to everyone who has to
work on Monday following a hearty Cinco party day). Today was also the
first day that the salsa music from on top of the hill started testing
their speakers. I had seen them set up the Cusque√±o tent over the past
copule days, and was wondering what its eventual purpose would be. I
figured -- perhaps that's where the stumbling band has been refuling for
yet another round around town.

Nope. Other plans were in store for that location. Aside from the
blinding lights shining directly onto my seating location behind the
bar, the speakers were turned up past 11 and ready for some serious
party time. It started about 4pm -- about the time that I realized I had
had enough of this stupid holiday. I warned bar partrons about the
oncoming slaughter of sonia, while trying to ask them if they wanted
anything from the bar.

One particularly interesting patron recommended that we go and check out
what was really going on over there. Always attempting to be open to new
experiences, I said "sure", and asked a co-worker to cover for me. He
was not technically on the clock (he was scheduled to work in the
morning), but he was glad enough to oblige. I said I would only be gone
for 5 or 10 minutes, I gave him the keys, and I went to explore the
source of my increasing curiosity and ire.

It turned out to be a blast. It was a locals-only BBQ party. We arrived
just in time to get a styrofoam box of chicken breast, biscuit, cheese,
sausage, sea-weed, fish roe, lungs... Wait, what? Yeah... we didn't eat
everything. But in return, we decided, it would only be polite to buy a
giant beer to share with the person who invited us to participate in the
communal meal. We did buy one, and, as way leads to way, we found
ourselves dancing salsa to the very music which had only 30 minutes ago
been the bane of our eardrums.

Fast forward maybe two hours or so, and I come back to work. Nothing
really transpired besides a beer and a conversation; nothing really to
report. A hearty "thanks for covering for me" followed by an "anytime
man", and the night went on uneventfully.

And that's when I remembered that, at least as explained to me, in
Colombian culture, there are actually tweleve commandments. Beyond the
ten that we judeo-christian households grew up with, they have added two
very prudent guiding lessons which should be held in the front of your
mind when you are about to ask for a favour or do something that makes
you lose face.

11. No dar papaya

12. Papaya ponida, papaya partida

Different, I know. What the heck is this about "don't give papaya"? You
mean the fruit? Perhaps the context for this new commandment would help
you to understand. It was 4am one night, and a group of us had stayed up drinking and
talking. We started hearing the stirrings of the morning-shift
breakfast-maker coming in and starting to clean and set up for the
inevitable onslaught of early-morning machu-picchu-goers. And that's
when the Colombians went downstairs to help the other person with
whatever the needed.

It wasn't that they felt an inherent obligation. After all, it wasn't
their shift, and they would very likely be working that afternoon /
evening in their respective roles. No, rather, it was related to that
commandment. "Don't give papaya", as far as I can tell, means "Don't
give someone an opportunity to hold anything above you". That might not
mean much by itself, but the twelveth commandment brings it into
perspective. It literally means "If you give papaya, your papaya will be
cut in half" which can be gringo-translated as "If you give someone that opportunity to hold something
above you, you better believe that they will take advantage of it later
on." So better not give it.

Fast forward to this morning. I was going to bed after a long night of
talking with friends and reading Reddit, and I noticed that the kitchen
was a mess. I knew that the person who had covered for me while I was
out enjoying the local scene was going to be the one coming in for the
morning shift, so I decided I wanted to take my papaya back. So I
cleaned the dishes, boiled water for tea, set up the table, folded
laundry, and cooked them breakfast.

As I was heading upstairs, I said "So that's how you don't 'give
papaya', right? We even?" "Kinda", they said. "Kinda?" "No, yeah, no,
we're good."

Damn straight. My papaya's in tact and in posession, thank you very
much.

