---
 layout: post
 title: Real Life Checkpoints
---

When something is novel, that thing can either be exciting or scary; a high amplitude of love or fear. When I first took "the mountain pass" from Guate to Peten, I had much fear -- yo tuvo mucho miedo. This second time, through, was much easier. No, wrong word. It's actually enjoyable. I want to do this a third time.

Maybe it's the fact that my first time was filled with the fear of a new trip -- an unexpected journey. Or maybe it was the state of mind I was in at the time -- in a new city, a new culture, feeling a bit of (nonexistent) hostility, and questioning the choices that led me to where I was. Or maybe, just maybe, that first trip was an important part of me understanding and surrendering to who I am and why I was where I was.

My initial trip was, in some sense, perpetuated by a force of will: I am going to make it to Peten, godammit, 'cause that's what I came here for. No fuckin' way am I going to die on these backwoods roads in this backasswords country. I recently heard another group of travelers describe their experience: how they "fed" the driver caffeine; how they were counting the white wooden crosses that line the 10 hour trek from Guate to Peten. And that's when I realized: I had moved on, past that initial fear.

The experience that I had my first night in Guatemala was important for me to acclimate to the path I had chosen. That night, I eventually surrendered to the "que sera" / "come what may" mindset which has been my most important asset on my travels. I was honest-to-goodness A-OK with dying that night, on that bus, at that point in my travels; indeed, what a way to die, am I right? And that's something which I recognize as an important "checkpoint" or "save place" in life. Just like in video games, if we identify points in our lives where we are happy, healthy, and going into something new, exciting, and different, perhaps we should take a moment to press save (read: appreciate the situation).

Yet still. What if? Right? What if I did indeed die aboard the ADN bus, coming 'round a turn, both we and the other bus just a foot over its own lane; a spin-out, like a giant cue 'gainst a bus-sized billiard ball; a perfectly symmetrical, aerial dance; slow-motion; choreographed to Ave Maria. Or the American Airlines, 3 minutes after take-off, 5k feet above Miami, admiring the proclivity of mankind, and down we go. What *if*?

Well, for one thing, I claim that it'd be beautiful -- not with a whimper but a bang. And quite an unusual death, at that -- I don't know anyone who has died under such circumstances. So far, good terms to use when you are describing the instrument of your death: beautiful and unusual. The aftermath, though, for those involved who have to deal with whatever mess you made (both physically and metaphorically) is something that cannot be ignored. Neither can you ignore the question of what happens to *you*.

So what next? What of me and my fellow passengers? What happens to us? I would claim to be only intellectually curious; that I don't really care what happens next to me when I die. But I think I might be fibbing a bit. For my part, I feel that I am in such a good place that if I were to find myself in h-e-double-hockey-sticks tomorrow, I would say "Uh huh. Sure. Funny joke. I'ma call your bluff; I know that I don't belong here."

I don't have "all the answers", nor do I think anyone else does, nor do I think it's possible. Or at least I hope not: I'd hate for some jack-ass know-it-all to be able to prove his jack-ass beliefs. All I know is that there is a reason I am here right now. So if I die, then the transitive property of death means that there is a reason I died. You following me? And whether "reason" implies past or future, we are talking about causality. And that is a humungous topic.

What of it? Well, choice, of course. Decision, and decision, and decision, creeps in this petty pace, from day to day. We are all where we all right now because of the choices we have all made up until now. So the path we are on right now is exactly the path we have chosen. If that's a problem, fortunately we have the ability to change it. But what if that decision leads to a "dead end" (pun intended)?

Well then, that's it for us, the people communicating right now. If you were to drop dead after reading this, that would be the end of the you that read this under exactly the same circumstances that you read this. I mean, choice for choice, exactly the same. Perhaps if you had made different choices, either one choice, or some choices, or all choices, you would not be in the situation where you spontaneously died. 

But since you did what you have done, you are now who you are. And if that person ends up dead, then you have only your choices (and the choices of others) to blame. But what of your other "selves", who did not make exactly the same decisions? Well, then obviously, they would not all be in the same situation as you. Most likely, they would still be alive, continuing on. Without using the words "good" and "bad", it is important to question: under which circumstances, in which situations, for what choices am I OK with following-through to the point that it might end with my death.

I'll tell you what: before? No eff'in way. Now? Sure. Definitely. Because between now and the point of my death, the things I will learn; the lives I will be able to influence; the futures I will be able to co-create; the personal growth that I will encounter -- it's worth it, to me. And I know that from experience. I, personally, prefer to eat from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil.

Indeed, I already have. And all I can say is: Huh.

So what do I believe, having eaten from the forbidden tree? Well, for starters: that when I die, this particular drop disappears into the ocean; this incredible experience that I am living comes to an end fo shizzle. And how can it not? Under what circumstances is it OK that I get another chance? Who and what I am is based on a past and present that, in this, or any-other dimension, cannot be reproduced. The choices I made led me to where I am, and if that is to death, then that is the end of this journey. To change those rules would be lame; it would defeat the purpose of the whole game.

Now, could there be other "me"s, on other journeys, who make it past this point? Yeah, of course. For whatever reason, whatever choices they made never brought them to the place where I die(d). Does that mean that I made "wrong" decisions? Well, first of all, I use "wrong" in quotes, because, in my opinion, and after using a lot of grammatically-correct comma phrases, you can't judge things like choices by using words like "right" and "wrong". For myself, I do not accept a cartesian dichotomy of "good" and "bad"; though I'm using "cartesian dichotomy" as a joke, cause I am not so postmodern, or maybe I am, to define the phrase to mean whatever it is that I intend it to mean: I am a yin-yang balance of Love and Fear; black is not black without the white. 

When I am trying to make a decision on what (if anything) I should do next, my process is simple: lose myself in the past, live in the present, and consider the future. A simple "pros / cons" list can help you distinguish which direction is towards Love, and which is influenced by Fear. At the very least, you can toss a coin; as they say, for that moment before the coin lands, you know which outcome you are hoping for. And there ya go.

And that's kinda the point, isn't it? I am where I am today; given all the choices I have made, I can only ever be right here. Therefore, if I die, it's in some sense evolutionary: there can be no further "me"s who have made the exact same decisions I have but still continue to "prosper" and "procreate". Yet in the very same way, it leads you to ask the question: if I die here, is there a choice I could have (or, even more trippy) did make that led me to an alternate future in which I am not here? Or, in the ultimate sense, are there a series of decisions I could make in which I do not die?

That's exactly the point, though: however strange, alien, boring, mundane, triply, fulfilling your life is, that's the life you chose. You had other choices; indeed, given that you had chosen those other choices, you would be leading a different life. Even when you make "wrong" decisions that lead to a "negative" thing in your life, think about it this way: you have made choices that have taught you something eternal about life, which you now know, and cannot un-know; that education was important a life-long.

The past is the past, and, therefore, depending on what choice(s) you make next, the present is the present. Here's what I know: I'm glad to be where I am, doing what I am, thinking what I am, being who I am. As a teacher in High School used to ask: "Is there anywhere else that you would rather be?" and to that, I would say, right now: "No. No, there isn't."

And that, to me, has made all the difference.

