---
 layout: post
 title: Cover Letter for Duolingo
---

If it's OK by you, maybe I'll start in the near-present and work backwards before moving on to what I see that we can do together in the future. Sound good?

I found [Duolingo](http://duolingo.com/) while scouring the web for open-source ESL programs after writing [Mojitos in Miami](http://blawg.konreu.com/2013/02/24/mojitos-in-miami/), my "call to the universe". If you read that post, you can see I was/am planning to study to gain a certificate in [TEFL](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Teaching_English_as_a_foreign_language) in Guatemala. Why Guatemala? Because I love the people, the culture, the opportunities to help others; and because I have a network of TEFL people down there. Why TEFL? Because I find that when people learn another language, a whole new series of opportunities is added to their existing set of choices in life; and I want to be more knowledgeable in how to do that. For me, TESL in Guatemala is a pretty kick.ass. way to spend my time and energy.

My problem with TEFL is that I, me, this body, is not scalable. I cannot simultaneously teach English to people in multiple geographical locations. Even if I could, I can't teach to an unlimited number of people. The good news is, though, that I have been gifted with the skills necessary to help ideas travel at near-light-speed all around the world. I am a Computer Scientist -- more specifically, a Web Developer -- and that means scalability. Indeed, it's one of the main reasons I love my profession: if done correctly, I can make a difference in millions of people's lives as easily as I can in one person's.

For me, getting a TEFL certificate is not really about the piece of paper -- it's about learning how to help people acquire a new language. While in Guatemala, I had the opportunity to teach English for 4 hrs a day for 3 weeks. Teaching English is really damn hard. I was definitely over my head. I fucking loved it. In this process, I met a person who is part of [a group collaborating to create a curriculum](http://www.lasmanosdc.org/) for underprivileged students in [the slums in Guatemala](http://www.safepassage.org/) -- kids who have no need to learn vocabulary related to dining out because [there are no restaurants where they live](http://www.buenascosas.org/). This idea -- customizing content based on context -- can be applied to vocab from region to region (e.g., different flora / fauna in different areas of the world), as well as from language to language (e.g., Spanish mixes up *b*s and *v*s, while Hindi mixes up *v*s and *w*s). But I digress.

I was looking for open-source EFL software / curriculums because, after my recent experience in Guatemala, I had decided to commit to the fact that in the next 6 months, I will be able to put a [$35 tablet](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aakash_\(tablet\)) into the hands of the students I have been teaching in Guatemala and sit back and observe them learning. I thought I was going to have to write that Android app myself, and maybe I still may have to. But that's why I am contacting you at this point: I hope to convince you that we can work together to achieve both of our goals in a mutually-beneficial, collaborative way.

Before I get ahead of myself, though, let me say that I am first and foremost a web developer. I like thinking about things in the grand scale of their impact on the world, and I like implementing them down to their finest details. I take pride in my code and I like working with other people who do the same. Most recently, I worked with [Quirky](http://www.quirky.com) on scaling their Rails application. I showed up when we had 80k registered users, and we had 360k+ by the time I left 18 months later. That was a fun experience. I learned a lot. I ended up trying almost every AWS offering available, while simultaneously realizing what can happen if you put *too* much trust in AWS -- the same lesson Pinterest and Instgram learned the hard way. Any mistake once, am I right?

I left Quirky at the end of 2012 because I felt that Quirky and I were no longer going in the same direction. At the time, I was obsessed with the idea that there are so many "big problems" in the world that needed to be solved; how do we go about choosing which ones to solve? I decided to go on a trip to a place where there were a lot of what I thought of as "real world problems" -- no running water, food shortages, corruption, etc. -- and to see what things were *actually* like. I did not want to come in from the outside and say "Hey you! You've got problems! I'm here to fix them for you!" Rather, I wanted to ask "What is important to you? How can I help?"

With everywhere I went and everyone I talked to, it turns out there are really 2 big "asks" in rural Guatemala: access to English language learning, and access to the Internet. Having come down there to do physical labour (build houses, clear fields, etc.), these struck me completely out of left-field. English and the Internet are arguably the two things that I take most for granted in my life, yet I could not see that they were something that others would want most; rather, I should say "took", since after having immersed myself for 3 weeks in rural Guatemala, I can appreciate what it is like to go for an extended period of time without being able to look something up on Google, or to be able to express what I am thinking without first having to translate it to a non-native language.

English and Internet access. I think we can agree on this: helping people communicate with each other -- through language acquisition or through making the information on the web more accessible -- makes this world a better place.

Fast forward back to when I found Duolingo. Watching [Luis von Ahn's the TED Talk of "Massive Scale Online Collaboration"](http://www.ted.com/talks/luis_von_ahn_massive_scale_online_collaboration.html), I was thinking: these are minds that I can appreciate: both the problem you decided to solve: "How can we translate the web?"; and the approach you decided to take "100M people learning a language!". It's one of those [gordian knot](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gordian_Knot) solutions where you step back and just know that there is truth behind the brilliance. I love those realizations. I usually try to follow them, like a white rabbit.

Yet, while I would like to say that I can appreciate the end goal of translating the web, and all the technology required and the ramifications of solving this problem; right now, I must confess that it is the means to this end that is most interesting to me: the actual web and mobile apps that you are in the process of creating. When I look at Duolingo, I don't see "just another language learning app", of which there are bazillions of really crappy ones and one really expensive one. Rather, I see The Language Acquisition Platform that will finally provide the foundation on which to start really addressing the global communication / language / learning gap. I see the opportunity to help organize and empower a group of well-intentioned but ill-equipped teachers, globally, to work towards a common goal of helping people learn and communicate.

So, here's what I am proposing. I would like to join Duolingo in 3 different capacities:

**Infrastructure Scaling**
I would like to take what I have learned from my time at Quirky and CareerBuilder and apply it to whatever problems you guys are having, or will have, as you start to scale your platform to more users and more platforms. I believe I have a lot to offer in this area, and it is for sure something that I legitimately enjoy doing. What I bring to the table is experience (from having failed), and a way of thinking about distribution, scaling, and APIs from having seen what works and what doesn't.

**Android App Dev**
I would like to work alongside the new Android Dev that just started to learn from them. I have [written a bit about Android Dev](http://android.konreu.com/) and have [released a few apps](https://play.google.com/store/search?q=konreu) back in the day. I realize that 2010 was a while back, though, and that I am most likely behind the times in regards to the latest Android libraries; but I also know that I learn quickly and will be able to contribute to getting this app out of the door. Pushing the Android app forward is really not my main purpose, though, rather it would be…

**Open Sourcing (Parts of) the Android App**
This is what I am really excited about, and the main reason that I am contacting you. While creating the Android app, I see that Duolingo has an *incredible* opportunity to do so with the intention of releasing an open-source version. This OSS app would not contain the portions that are about phrase selection, confidence measures, or translating the web, which I consider to be Duolingo's secret sauce and I would understand if you are not in a position to release. Rather, what I think is important and definitely viable to release as libre is what is left of the Android app after you take this all out: multiple choice, matching, word ordering, typing, listening, lessons, badges, etc. The development of this OSS branch would be with teachers in rural Guatemala in mind. This means that it would: be internet agnostic, allow for customizable content, and perform well on the $35 tablet. In other words, what would be open-sourced is a Learning Acquisition Platform that can be used and customized by  teachers all around the world to improve the learning feedback cycle of their students.

What's cool is that, if done correctly, aside from empowering teachers world-wide, Duolingo would also be tapping into the knowledge and goodwill of the teaching and open-source communities to help improve the existing curriculum and Android app. Duolingo would keep their proprietary information separate, which will help it continue to pursue its goal of translating the web, but in the mean time, it will ensure that its Android product is high quality and that it is giving back to the ESL and OSS community in the form of a libre/gratis, customizable Learning Acquisition Platform.

Finding Duolingo while on my TESL journey; being aligned with the ethos behind everything you represent; witnessing the obvious degree of excellence that you require within your organization; envisioning the opportunities this could have for teachers and students, globally, for generations to come; I want to join your challenge to make the world a more connected place through lowering the language barrier through both language acquisition as well as translating content. I know that this needs to be done; that this is what I want to do; and that now is the time to do it. So… when can we start?

I hope that we can have a dialogue about how this arrangement could be possible. I eagerly await hearing back from you. Thanks for your time! Keep up the great work!








