---
layout: post
tags:
 - blawg
title: Historia
---

I am very fortunate. And I am very grateful for it.

When I came here, I prayed to Pachamama to give me a place to belong. I
had been so long (around a month) without ever feeling like I was home.
When I left Guatemala, I thought I was heading home. What I found,
instead, were people I love in places where I could not be myself.
Pachamama gave me a place to call home for the past month, and I cannot
see (right now) how I could be any happier. But that's just it: I can
not see.

So brief history of my worldview: we see in three dichotomous dimensions
(up vs. down, left vs. right, forward vs. backwards); but we are
conscious of a fourth: time. Einstein and all those smart guys told us
that space-time has a hyphen (or not); but it's a sort of fabric of the
universe. Since the concept of time as the fourth dimension, though,
we've somehow decided four is a ridiculous number. So why not, say,
like, ten? (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0ca4miMMaCE)

So the real question is, what means the fifth dimension? According to
the explanation provided via YouTube, it's the place (yes, place, like
how "here and now" is a place) where space-time can be explored. Not to
be all like "I told you so!", but it's something I have known since I
was a kid, albeit in kid terms. It was a dream I had when I was maybe,
let's say, 8. Depending on which school of psychology you subscribe to,
this dream might mean something different than what I take away from it;
but I still maintain that reality is subjective, so here it goes:

I was in a white room, infinite in scope, with bright lights that hide
the horizon, not unlike a photographer's light-box, or like that
used-car commercial where racks of cars shifted around to reveal their
perfect vehicle (*cough* The Matrix *cough*). There was a giant stuffed teddy bear, who walked and
talked like a real boy. And he showed me many things, not in a pedo-bear
sort of way, though. Though, in retrospect, he looked a lot like the
"Watch for Children" character. Analyze that, Freud!

One thing I learned while I was there was that the
room I was in was not in regular space-time; I was somehow outside of
everything that I was used to experiencing. Of course, I didn't know of
the word(s) "space-time" at the ... time. The concept I had was that I
was in dream-land, and therefore was outside of what I was used to.

There was a
giant grandfather clock which swung in an irregular pattern. Out of one
of its sides stuck a yard- (or metre-) stick. With each unpredictable
tiiiiiiiick-tok-tiick-toooooook the stick slid further into the clock.
Without speaking, the pedo-bear taught me that when the measure runs
out, so does my life. That was the first time that I realized that the
length of my life is not only unpredictable, but also determined by me.

Whether because of pure rebellion, or because of my personality trait of
asking "what would happen if?", I decided to block the movement of the
stick with some (apparent) object. Thus, as each tick became tok, my
life-line stayed the same. At the age of eight, I had obtained
immortality.

After realizing this fact (because in dreams, thoughts are facts), I was
then shown the "room" I was in. It was hard to see, due to the blinding
bright whiteness, but I was able to make out irregularly- shaped, sized,
and placed doors all over the place. Admittedly, it was quite Alice in
Wonderland, though on behalf of my younger self, I cannot speak to
whether or not I'd ever seen the movie (I'd definitely not read the
book).

These doors, it was explained to me (or, I realized) were choices that I
could make at this particular junction -- the "room" I was in. At the
time, I thought of them as different dreams I could enter. If I went in
this one small, off-to-the-side door, I would encounter a fantasy dream;
whereas if I went through this larger, prominent door, I might encounter
an every-day nightmare, where you wake up the next morning and have to
re-live your day. The worst.

This was the first time that I realized that we have the choice to
decide what our life stories are going to be. The fifth dimension is
composed of this wonderful idea called "choice". By "choosing", we leave
that white room with pedo-bear, and embarque on whatever new dream /
life we have chosen. Once we leave that room, we can never go back.

Don't confuse this with Austin Powers, where behind one door lies some
laser-wielding shark, or something. All doors are good for us. We will
always learn and experience something that we need in order to become
the people that we were meant to be. There are no "right" and "wrong"
choices, in this instance. We choose what we want to choose at the time,
because of the reasons that we have for choosing it. Once we have
chosen, we can not regret the choice, because we will find ourselves in
some other situation, in some other time, and (as long as we can enjoy
where and when we are), we could not see ourselves choosing differently.

And that's our story. Nuestro historia.

P.S. It makes me happy to think that somewhere, sometime, there exists
me, but a different me, who made a different choice, and is getting to
live out that different life that would have unfolded would I have made
that different choice. But as for me, right now, I'm happy; so why would
I have wanted to make any different decisions?





