---
 layout: post
 title: Shortest Day
---

The following takes place in the recent past, and the recent future, or
soon to be recent future. Whatever. It happens. And it happens like,
around the same time that you are now living in, whenever or wherever
that might be.

You have to realize that the people who built this place, like,
originally, were totally into the sun, and whatever things go along with
that. So today is an especially important day for them. To watch it come
through...... You have to appreciate that shit, no?

Given a dollar, I don't give a damn.

I still have more to learn. I think here. But maybe not. But who ever
knows, right? Well, I mean, I sometimes do, but now, I am not sure, and
I am sure that in a while, I will know, one way or the other, but for
now, no, I mean, yeah, I mean: OK.

¿Qué quiero?  No sé.

Pero tal vez, un día, voy a entender y hacer y amor y saber y conocer
cual que es un de recha de todos la gente en todo el mundo: que podemos
vivir.

When we consider something like property rights, we first must ignore
the obvious: that everything we know is based on this single principle:
that when questioned, we might also question everything we believe: but
this idea that your job can be to have money; that you earn money by
having money; and that is the whole sense, sentiment, and siento.

How many people do you know who would say "What do you mean? I can not
earn 'a living' off of having land which others pay me to use?"

I 'know' a few, but they are not people or lifestyles that I would like
to imitate. Wolves in sheeps clothing, as they say. . . .

But given that I have already been here, many, many times before....
that does not help me then decide what to do from this ever-same
juncture; this wholeplace where I know and do not know that which is
being told to me; neither that I am telling everyone else.

To be here is like the realization that every up leads to a down; and a
double up, to a double down. And any playa' knoz that a double-down
leads to alllll sortz of trouble. And I ain't gonna be 'round for dat
shit. Cause for to me, that in and of itself, is a reason not to ever
participate.

But say you can't help but see that: well, damn; I have to change
myself, as well; and those around me; and I have to do this; and I Have
to do something new and other and who knows what all else; but that's
the point: that I can't even begin to even speak about that which I
might want to do; because that is totally against everything that I
believe to be true.

The decision to hold yourself accountable for your own mnistakes,
interests, and whatever else not that you might want to keep out of the
rain of the consequences of that which you once thought was wise, but
which, with age, has tought you that wisdom is not something that comes
with age, but with experience; and you, listening to the rat, scared,
dancing, contra to what you believe; that is what you must not fear; it
holds no power over you but for what you give to it.

And thus is the way we view our lives: that we say: well, My God, how
beautiful; and i say, "I agree", and through ego, gain a minutae of
credence, and evermore wonder why I would bother trying to be that which
I am; again; and again.

And thus am I.

And thus have I ever been; only now, am I saying: instead of keeping it
a part of me that I only type to myself; I also want to let others know:
it's OK. To be like this is OK.

It's not convential. It's not what you are tought to be, "when you grow
up". But this is something that, right here, right now, is real; and
what you are really saying is that you really care about how you really
live; and not about the artifical instrumentation of the way that others
have decided is in their benefit for you to live.

*THAT* feeling, is the feeling that you need to hold on to; the feeling
that you are who you are because you did what you did; and you are going
to do what you are going to do through the miracle that we call
consciousness; and that the lessons that you learn are exactly what you
needed to learn: no more, no less; and whenever you feel a lack, also
feel the sufficiente that comes from not knowing when or where your next
meal might be; and realizing that "not going hungry" is not the same as
"food confidence" or whatever the fuck they call it.

That the past that we once wanted to share, and might again use as a
basis for the future, has been interrupted; and that any attempt ot
restart the flooded (or unprimed) engine of our relationship is
something that might one day cause future literature majors either
cringe or weep with happiness or pain. We are who we are, and have done
what we have done, and what I did is something that I might never expect
of anyone, including myself, especially myself, to do, even though I had
seen someone else do it; and I remember, when my own agenda was even
more important than that of someone who needed me more than they did, or
even I did.

But to know someone as you never are quite sure you might ever know
someone again: to know that that is possible; to actually feel that
which you had one time felt; and she is at the same time both everything
you didn't have a name for; and that other thing, which you never made a
name for.

You wonder, sometimes, if maybe, if things were different: if you
weren't here ot begin with, what would things here be like? Or, even
more so, the past: if you weren't there, at that time, doing what you
were doing, how could you ever trust this idea that you might one day
never be where you are, or doing what you are doing.

DO you want to do blah-blah-blah for the rest of your life?

I ask you, not that, but this:

  1)  Why are you right here, right now, having this conversation ?

  2)  What is one fear you have been holding on to ?

  3)  What is one hope that you have for the future ?

  4)  Describe someone with whom you thought you could have kids ?

  5)  If you had a way to get one, single message out to everyone who is
      either alive, or will be alive in the future, what would you tell them?

And that's pretty much it. Everything inbetween is just like... a
filler.. no, a substance... no, the main part. Whatever.

All I know is that I'm in, dawg. Parce. Juebon. Marica. Gonnorea.

Yeah.

Ghonorrhea.

...



