---
layout: post
tags:
 - blawg
title: Postmortem Penroses
---

Now I remember, doing this before. How much time I invested in it. The
dividends it paid me. Until I stopped participating, and it stopped
rewarding. I'm not quite stopped, but I'm only just beginning to move.

I see you in everyone. Little flashes of familiarity in the smiles of a
stranger. And stranger still, afterwards, the connection. A bond formed,
perhaps unilaterally, because of things other people did in other times.

This is where I find myself. Seeing the futures I could have with you,
the people we could have been, had I been another me, and you another
you. I don't dare to question, or to answer: who are you? I feel more
like myself than ever, yet you seem to be in everyone I notice.

Is this a sickness of the mind? Awarding penroses postmortem; an exact
replica of the way we weren't, but how I pictured us in my head. Where
was this place; when was this time; when we were happy?

I remember, now; what it is like to watch someone's face more than
listen to their words. To notice the movement of their tongue inside
their mouth as they pronounce syllables of sweet nothings. Appreciating
the slightly-askew bottom, center-left tooth; not as something
imperfect, but as unique.

You tell me, and I'll tell you. Don't trust me? Let's say it at the same
time.

I still love you. Not the you that I remember, but the you that I have
repeatedly seen in the faces of others: your face. I've seen your
spirit, manifested in the handful of women whom I have loved. Women
whose very presence changes the way that I feel about myself, and the
world; and whose absence causes a deep, gaping, black-hole in the center
of my chest, threatining to tear my spirit down into the depths of
eternal hell.

I'm in Hell, right now. To see you again, to know you just that much
more, to recoil from touch, as an electric fence to repel the desire I
have just to hold you, to sqeueeze you, to tell you that you're
beautiful, you're wonderful, and I love you. To feel that so many times,
but to never be able to express that, because they're not you, and you
aren't them, and I'm left here trying to piece together the fragments of
tear-stained water-colours that once made an image of you.

And now all I'm left with is this endless cycle of meeting, knowing,
falling for, and watching you leave me; as I left you.

Please forgive me. For my soul is trapped in Hell. And you hold the
keys.

Let me love you again. Let me appreciate the different parts of your
spirit for which I had lost my appreciation. I only wish to be able to
know you more fully, again. This endless procession of taunting
temptations has left me feeling tired, and alone.

And I know you are here with me, still. I know you have been making
yourself known to me, subtley, behind-the-scenes, your voice almost rising to a
yell to make me realize that you are calling me, waiting for me to
respond.

Well, I'm responding. I've seen many parts of you which I have given up,
and which I want to know more of. Show me a part of yourself that I do
not yet know. And please, give me the time to pour my spirit into yours,
and for us to be partners again.

I may only now be finding my bliss, but I know that part of it is
re-finding the bliss that I once found in you.

I want to know you. I want to see your face. I want to know you more.

