---
layout: post
tags:
 - blawg
title: Delicate
---

She's talking in her rapid, blurred, asymetrical way again. And again,
you feel yourself going into a trance. But unlike other times, with
other people, where you find your brain working on overdrive to
understand the conversation, and to reply accordingly, you instead find
yourself completely losing track of the topic thread. That does not
bother you, though, since your mind finds a different way to occupy
itself while she is talking.

You first notice her eyes. God, you love looking into blue eyes. And
hers are especially interesting with a gold rim around the pupil that
occupies your attention for longer than subjective time accounts for. As she continues
talking, she blinks, which to you seems like slow motion. You watch her
wonderfully-curved lashes leave their usual residence and head towards
each other, creating a set of hyperboles as they meet in the middle; a graph for which any mathemetician would be honoured to provide an equation.

Her eyebrows catch your attention next. So expressive, the way
they move in some coreographed pattern of ups, downs, pitches, and yaws,
providing a better emotional translation for whatever it is she is saying right
now than you could pick up on if you were able to pay attention
to the words she is saying rather than being distracted by how she is
saying them.

Her moving lips remind you that she is, indeed, actually making noise to
accompany the various parts of her face moving together. Her
uncomfortably-chapped lips make you wish you had chapstick with you, to
offer to her. It would be the sort of non-sequeter she is becoming used
to from you, of you waiting for her to finish talking about something
you weren't following, only to ask her a question which, to you, came
from a perferctly logical thought process, but which, to her, comes out
of nowhere, like: "Would you like some chapstick?" Or maybe, if you just got the courage, you would just kiss her, and thus share your chapstick.

The way her lips align, when she takes a break from saying something,
put her bottom lip pouting out a bit, with her top lip coming down in a
slight terse point to close the gap and complete the curve of her mouth.
Those poor chapped lips belie the fact that she actually has a slight
overbite, which you notice now when she smiles.

Her big grin makes you grin automatically in response. She takes this
mean you are still listening, and continues. But you are not listening
-- far from it. You are instead finding yourself studying her teeth.
Her gum-to-tooth ratio is relatively proportional, meaning that her
teeth seem a bit shorter than you are used to. Also, her incisor forms
this interesting diamond shape, shining out of both sides of her mouth,
that you have never seen on anyone else.

You are still counting the different ways she smiles through her eyes.
As she moves, emotionally, through the spectrum from mildly amused to
downright laughing, you watch the lines around her eyes progress like a
set of polynomial functions overlayed on each other, and graphed over
time. You have never noticed this on anyone else before, but when she
pulls off a slight smirk, there are vertical, radiant lines underneath
her eyes which suggests, and it is true that, she spends an
above-average amount of time grinning. When she smiles full-on, the
lines continue around the sides of her eyes, like a speedometer
indicating the level of mirth she is feeling at the moment.

The horizonal smile-lines extending from her eyes lead your attention to
the soft, blonde down that extends down her jawline; a femanine reminder
that not just men have facial hair. But the soft down enunciating the outline of her face does nothing more than make you fall more in love with her.

Such a tough word: love. Infatuated? Enamored? How do you describe what you are feeling towards someone that you have known for less than 24 hours?

All you know is that, as much as you like it, you hate it. Knowing that she leaves tomorrow makes you want to get rid of the feelings you are feeling as fast as you can.

But you can't: and that's kinda the point. Whatever you are feeling is exactly what you wanted to feel, when you asked, not too long ago, to please, please, be able to feel again.

Well here you go: how does it feel? It sucks, right? Yeah. Exactly. I told you so.
