---
layout: post
tags:
 - blawg
 - personal
title: Upward Spiral
---

Life is defined by cycles, from large to small, we are composed of patterns and rhythms that repeat: day and night (rotation), the seasons (revolution), breathing (in, out), blinking (open, closed), at home or at work, working or on vacation, birthdays and unbirthdays, etc...

Still, it is possible to differentiate one cycle from another. For example, you can distinguish today from a day last month not only because of the length of the day, but also because of what you were doing; this current breath from one earlier in the day because of what you were saying; this birthday from your last birthday because of your appearance, location, or relationships.

But something happens internally, too, in-between birthdays that cannot be measured or discriminated. You, as a person, change. Your view of the world, of yourself, of how we should live, of what you want in life. As the Earth revolves around the Sun, the Sun is moving forward through space at a few hundred thousand miles per hour; in a year from now, even though we will be in the same place relative to the Sun, we will be in a completely different part of the universe.

If you were to be the same person from cycle to cycle, you would not be learning or growing. If you wanted the same things from cycle to cycle, you would not be living. You would simply be stuck in a cycle on a horizontal plane in cartesian coordinates -- the Earth revolving around a static Sun. Your velocity would be zero, because you would eventually end up at the exact same place on the graph (a neat little trick of Physics' definition of velocity).

What seems much preferable, at least to me, is that each cycle in the horizontal plane involves movement along the Z axis: progress. Just as you never step in the same stream twice, neither should you ever come back to the same place in your life. It may be similar, sometimes uncannily so, but it should never be the same.

For me, though, cycles are not only in yearly increments between birthdays. I have another set of cycles that do not (to my knowledge) have a fixed duration but rather (as far as I can tell) are based entirely on my perception of my circumstances. Here's how my cycle looks, from my perspective:

The end of a cycle starts with Depression and Denial: I find myself disenfranchised, where certain things around me that I once held in high esteem lose their value. That's the depression part. The denial part is not that I don't accept that it's happening (although I may not realize it has started for a while after the fact), but that I refuse to analyze and acknowledge the root cause of the depression. The denial aspect of this is, in a way, a postponement of the inevitable. Yet it is important to realize that prolonging this phase unnecessarily causes negative thoughts and emotions in myself and others that need not exist. It is best, once I realize the cycle is coming to a close, to move on to the next stage quickly.

Once I do, next comes the Dissatisfaction phase: I think about, realize, and admit to myself *why* I have been depressed and what I have been denying. Simply thinking about the issue lessens the negative feeling significantly. No matter the size of the enemy you are facing, it is empowering to know the enemy; to face an unknown enemy is the height of fear. The "why" aspects of the dissatisfaction could be a number of things; they are not always externalities; often they are aspects or behaviors of myself which I no longer wish to continue. The size of the aspects of dissatisfaction proportional to the depression experienced beforehand, and also to the phase that comes next. By this point, I am in complete control over when and if to execute the next stage in the cycle. It behooves me to rationally examine my feelings and motives during this stage before moving on; because once I do, there is no going back.

Change: I make a decision to either improve or let go of the things which have contributed to the dissatisfaction. When they are internal, that means changing my behaviors, habits, or thought patterns. When they are external, this involves notifying the people or organizations affected of my intention to change. This can often cause emotional discomfort for myself and others. Change is never easy, but always necessary. This phase also includes planning for what or who (if anything or anyone) will take the place of the aspects of my life that I am not bringing with me into my next cycle. For example, realizing that my work is no longer a healthy and productive place for me, I need to decide whether or not I want to have a steady job in my next phase; if so, what type of job? and where? to what end? and if not, what I am going to do with my time? This is the time when I get to construct my new set of circumstances for the next phase.

The final phase is actually the beginning of the next cycle: Living. The choices I made in the previous phase have been set in motion and require me to execute upon them as only I can. It's like having the basic outline of a story, but still needing to write it. How well I write the story of my new cycle plays a part in how long the cycle lasts, and how soon I might find the cycle winding down through the depression / denial phase. The Living phase is supposed to be the most fun part of the cycle and in theory, if the story is the right story for me, should last forever. Yet unless I have reached my "final destination" (if such a thing even exists), I know that this phase will always be temporary as I yearn to keep learning and growing towards that place where I long to be.

Here is the rub: in each cycle, I learn lessons that I (ideally) do not need to repeat in future cycles. Each time I go through a cycle, I learn more, I grow more, I reach for more, and I attain more. My cycle is an upward spiral. I am not stuck in an endless loop on the same plane with zero velocity. I am ascending with each revolution. Living through a cycle is not easy, can be painful to myself and to others (especially in the last phases of the cycle), and does not always appear to be a good thing while in the midst of it.

But looking back on past cycles, I can have confidence that wherever and whoever I end up being after this cycle is complete, I am "moving forward, not backward; upward, not forward; and always twirling, twirling, twirling towards freedom!". And year after year, cycle by cycle, I am becoming more of myself; of who I want to be. Each cycle, I am a better me than I was the year before. And that's something to be proud of.


