---
layout: post
tags:
 - blawg
title: Abraham Lincoln's Wrist Watch
---

If I were time, I would be quite puzzled.

I would see these things -- these people -- flashing before my eyes, in
a confusing sequence of birth and death, but somehow they are confused
-- conceited. I see them for who they were, are, and might be...

How can you not
realize the extrordinary existance in which you exist? You feel like the
present is just a pleasant interruption to the past? Or sometimes do you
feel like this has happened before, and it will happen again...

... so what will you do? Except for renouncing the plans that you have,
or the things that you've learned, you can never escape the past nor the
future. I can see that.

I can see that because I am that thing -- who
lived all your pasts, and will live all your futures.

You want to be objective about it? Why not discuss the disperity between
what you wanted to be, and who you are now? Why not start there?

When I see you, I see all your hopes and dreams; and I also see all of your
fears and regrets. Do you know what it is like to see both of those?
Sad. That's what it's like. Because it's so obvious!

IF YOU ALWAYS DO WHAT YOU'VE ALWAYS DONE, YOU'LL ALWYAS GET WHAT YOU'VE
ALWAYS GOT(TEN).

So now, the ball is in your court. You get to decide. Where do you want
to go from here?

Not like places, dummy! Like experiences! 5 is a nice round
number, so let's go with that. And so are years. Combine them?

In 5 years, where do you see yourself?

If I could be right there with you, right now, I'd give you a great ol'
bitch slap right 'cross your face. I'm pretty sure, when you held those
Pachamama coca leaves in your hand, that you were thinknig of something
other than finding your life's right path.

Fucking anarchist.

"Help me find what I need to do, and give me the energy with which to do
it."

Really? That's your big ask of the universe?

You have all the power of all the infinities that have ever made up the
time in which we are living...

...and you have all the infinities of all the futures that will ever
exist because we exist...

...and you choose to ask for something as simple as guidence, signs,
strength, and all that shit?

God. You must either not realize it, or be denying it, or be some sort
of masochistic sunuvabitch who cannot be consoled when it comes to
accepting the good things that come your way...

Cuz, brother, it's obvious to me, but maybe it ain't obvious to you: you
are pretty well off. I mean, the past you lived, wasn't that bad, was
it? You could complain about this or that, or claim that one thing or
another led to some behaviour you exhibit which blah blah blah...

But really? When does it cease to be your responibility to act, and
start becomming that of other people's actions from times long ago?
Umm... how about never!?

So you ask for guidence. Dude, you already know!!! ! ! Denial is a
strange thing: it obscures the truth in lieu of a lie. And you already
know your truth! Not *the* truth, but *your* truth. So why aren't you
fucking living that already?!

Oh, strength. OK. Sure. You're always too tired, or deserve a break, or
are distracted by something as totally uber awesome as, I dunno, let's
say, Adult Swim. If you were using those hours instead to do the thing
that you wanted to do, but never did; or you want to be true, but never
tried to make it so...

That's the sort of thing which, when you hear it, you should think:
Herm. Maybe I didn't do that so good. And maybe I never speak no
language so good.

If you are not happy with where you are, right now, OK !!! ! ! So are
many of us ! !!

But if you aren't learning anything ... dude ... WTF are you still doing
here ?

If the only thing you learn is what the true definition of 'stress'
is.... Dude, quite a time and place to learn it.

But, en serio, if you already come to represent that which you
originally had thought to be an anacronysm...

..., well, then, you might just be Abraham Lincoln's wrist watch.

<#
