---
 layout: post
 title: A Year's Worth of Haircuts
---

It's winter here in Peten. The air temperature, in the shade, is exactly my favorite weather: 75 or so degrees with a nice breeze. But the sun, man; the sun here is intense. (Not sure what that's all about. Probably global warming.) If you're in the sun, it feels like the dead of summer in Atlanta: 100 degrees, humid, and for some reason the breeze stops. How it's possible to go from the most perfect weather to my definition of hell simply by stepping out of the shade is a mystery to me.

But don't let the shade fool you. Airflow is really the key here. If there's a building that doesn't get a good cross-wind, you can kiss the pleasant temperature goodbye, and say hello to mid-80s, humid, and stagnant. And the school I've been volunteering in doesn't get good airflow. Let me paint a very gross picture for you which has been my morning every day here so far. I leave the balmy comfort of the hammock in the shady breeze here at the house, and enter the scorching sun on my way to the school. It's only a 5 minute walk, but by the time I get there, I'm definitely starting to sweat. I get to the classroom and am proffered relief from the sun, only to find out that it's almost as hot inside; I should have known better. By now, my hair is starting to get damp and I'm starting to feel self-conscious about how gross I know I look. By the middle of my first class, my hair is soaked, as is my shirt. By the beginning of the second class, I've given up on any semblance of self-consciousness and just accept the fact that I feel gross, I look gross, but whatever -- I'm here to teach English to kids, not to make the cover of GC.

Still, I realized after the first day, and especially after the second, and you-better-believe by the third, that I needed to improve the situation as much as possible. So what could I change… I'm already wearing shorts and sandals; all I have is black t-shirts; and I've got my full-on New-York-Winter long-hair and beard. I decided to keep my beard for personal reasons ("every beard is a good beard"). I expect I'll fit right in when I go to Jordan, or Turkey, or India, or someplace like that where large scraggly beards are the norm -- but no way am I going to fit in here in Guatemala with this thing. I accept my new ridiculous identity as the bearded gringo. So the only thing left that could possibly improve my temperature situation was to cut my hair. Fine by me; I wasn't that attached to it anyway.

But the world, it seemed, was against me getting my hair cut today. Or else it just wanted to make sure that I really wanted it and was sure of what I was doing. Or else it just wanted to use a carrot (feeling more comfortable in this weather) to get me to jump through ridiculous hoops (my day today). Any or all of those things. All said and done, though, it was the most difficult and (proportionally) most expensive hair cut I've ever had.

I thought it would be simple. I asked "where can I get my hair cut?" and my host family was like "oh, we have clippers. we can do that for you here." Well, it turns out the person who told me that didn't realize that the clippers are 9 years old and don't really work anymore, so scratch that approach. "No problem, there's a family up the street that cuts hair for people in the neighborhood." Here in Peten, many households double as something else. A "store" is nothing more than a family who wanted to get Lays potato chips at the cheapest possible prices, so they order wholesale and sell to the rest of the neighborhood. There are houses that sell tortillas, or empanadas, some that have a lot of junk food, or treats, or bags of water… Point is, the "barber shop" here is just a guy's house who's got a set of hair clippers.

I grab a little extra cash in case this new place is more expensive, 18Q in all (10-15Q for the cut, depending on what place it is, plus maybe 3Q for a tip if it's a good experience). I head to that guy's house which is only a few blocks away. He's even got a sign. I've learned the Spanish phrase I need to say in order to politely indicate that I would like a haircut. The family asks me to enter (you never go into someone's property without being invited; you stand at the edge of the property until someone acknowledges you). They try to tell me that the guy who cuts the hair is not here right now, but they'll call him. They invite me to sit down. So far so good, I'm thinking. I ask "How much", and they say 10Q -- exactly what I was told to expect. Someone gets on the phone with the guy and they talk for a minute or so. I hear the word gringo. I smile. That's me: the bearded gringo. The guy gets off the phone and starts telling me something about the status of my desired haircut: something about the clipper machine, and other things I don't understand. So I'm thinking: OK, the guy's not here, and neither is his equipment. So I ask: "Should I just come back later?" (if only I were able to make my thoughts come out that clearly). "No, no," they say, and start to explain again about the guy and the machine. OK, so I'm thinking, Should I just wait? Is he on his way? They're still smiling at me, and I'm still smiling at them, though I'm completely puzzled. After a few more attempts at trying to understand the situation, I get it: I should just go; I'm not getting a hair cut here today, or ever. From what I understand, the guy on the phone indicated that his haircutting equipment won't work on a gringo's hair. So that awkward silence, while they waited for me to figure out that I essentially wasn't welcome, must be kinda what discrimination feels like.

So I return without a haircut. My host family and I laugh that this is proving more difficult than expected. If we only kew… That's OK, they say, there's another place I can go, and the son, Wilson, will take me. We start walking through the neighborhood and he mentions how hot it is today. A taxi comes by at that same moment and he flags it down. OK, I'm thinking, we'll pay a few Q to save a 5 minute walk in this heat. No problem. He tells the driver where to go (which I don't understand), and we are off on the bumpy road. We continue through the neighborhood then hit the main road. Hmm, I thought this was going to be in the neighborhood. I haven't been this far since the morning I came here, which was really just a blur due to my extreme sleep deprivation. We drive, and we drive, and we drive; and we stop for gas (gas is about $5/gallon here.) We keep driving.

Now I'm starting to think -- OK, so I probably can only get a 10Q haircut, and I'll owe 5Q for the taxi, but if worse comes to worse, I'll be able to bum some money off Wilson and pay him back when we get back home. After like 15 minutes, we get to the barber shop. We get out, and Wilson says it's 10Q for the taxi -- 5Q for me and 5Q for Wilson. Didn't you bring any money, Wilson? (As I'm paying the taxi guy) No… Aren't you getting your hair cut too, Wilson? No… By the time I realize what's going on, the taxi has already driven off, we're outside the barber shop with 8Q -- 2Q (or $0.25) short of being able to get my hair cut (no discounts allowed, says Wilson).

The situation hits both of us at the same time. It's actually pretty funny. After all that, here we are, come all this way, right where we wanted to be, but we can't do a damn thing about it except go right back where we came from. It's like if Frodo and Sam got to Mount Doom and realized -- shit, where's the ring? So we hail another taxi and start heading home. To keep things positive, I decided to think of that leg of the trip as a "sightseeing tour" rather than another failed attempt to get my hair cut. And in all seriousness, it really was interesting to see the city outside the neighborhood. Totally different world from the barrio.

So we get back home. This is now the second time I've come home from "getting a haircut" without a haircut to show for my efforts. I laugh as I get telling glances from the host family. I run in to grab more money -- 60Q this time: 20Q to pay this current driver for the ride home plus the return trip back to the same place he picked us up at; 10Q for the hair cut; and an additional 30Q because now I'm so paranoid about not having enough money with me that my new policy is to double whatever I expect to need.

Finally at the barber shop, I can tell that I am probably the first and only gringo whose hair this guy has cut -- and maybe the only gringo he's ever seen. In fact, I can't recall seeing any other gringos (besides my host dad) the whole time I've been here. So here I am, the bearded gringo with super long hair. I ask him not to cut the beard, but to cut my hair "like that guy's", and I point to him -- which I only now realize is supposedly pretty rude. The guy about to cut my hair is incredulous about the current state of my hair, as well as whether I understand what I'm asking him to do, but the proceeds anyway after I insist. He laughs as he uses the trimmers and huge chunks of hair fall off. He and the other guys in the shop find it to be quite unique, if not entertaining. I can feel the effects immediately and I know that this was a moment worth fighting towards: I can feel wind, and air, on my head. No longer is the top of my head its own heat insulator -- it can breathe again! I end up paying him 13Q -- 10Q for the cut, 1Q for his humor, 1Q for his skill, and 1Q for having a fan above the barber's chair. From now on, a giant fan blowing down on my head while I'm getting my hair cut will be a requirement.

As a "thank you" to Wilson for sticking with me (I wouldn't have known how to get there without him, and more importantly, I wouldn't have been able to get back home if he hadn't stayed), we grab some cold sodas at the pharmacy next door. This guy has so many different types of medicines that I've never heard of with funny pictures and even funnier names. "Pantyrase" -- like, to clean your undergarments? (Supposedly it's for when you've eaten too much. What?!). Wilson took me through their "mall", which is a strange assortment of outdoor and "indoor" kiosks that interconnect to form a labyrinth of jeans, t-shirts, shoes, boots, saddles, pirated DVDs, dora the explorer backpacks, hammocks, etc. No Gap, or Express, or even Sears. In many ways, it was a lot better than any mall I've been to in The States.

So at the end of the day, I ended up spending 60Q in total: 10Q for the first taxi; 20Q for the second round-trip taxi; 13Q for the haircut, 7Q for the sodas, and 10Q to get back home. And that's how my 10Q haircut became a 60Q haircut. Proportionally, 6x a normal haircut price is crazy; I could have gotten one every two months for an entire year for that price! Still, it cost less than $10, so I'm not complaining. And man, was that an experience.



