---
layout: post
tags:
 - blawg
 - personal
title: Mojitos in Miami
---

This morning, I woke up in Antigua, Guatemala. I had a "traditional" breakfast at McDonalds. It had tortillas, eggs, refried black beans, queso fresco, salsa, creme, and sausage. Ingredient-wise, it is indeed traditional -- except for the meat -- I've never had meat for breakfast in Guatemala. Yet it was still McDonalds; that is to say, each food element had obviously been designed and packaged with mass-production, quick-service, and high profit margins in mind, more than quality, taste, or health. I ate there just to see what it was like. And now I know -- no need to go back!

Kind of like yesterday, for first-meal, I ate at a USA-themed restaurant called "Joe's Bar & Grill" (no kidding). Joe was definitely Guatemalan. The food was "American": hamburgers, french fries, nachos… The portions were "American" too: ginormous! New rule of thumb when dining out in Guatemala -- if it's more than Q40 ($5 USD), split it with someone else, cause you're never going to be able to finish it. And that's not just my personal opinion; that's general consensus. All I know is that I only ate about 1/3 of my meal, and it was twice as much as I had been used to eating for the past 3 weeks in Peten.

So why was I in Antigua for 3 days? Well, in some sense, I felt like I had wanted to stay there a bit longer when I arrived in Guatemala that first day; I felt like I had left too soon, and have been looking to go back. So there's that. But primarily, it's because of the same reason I am in Miami right now: I am taking a quick vacation from Guatemala to surprise my family at a reunion in South Carolina. I had planned to join them when they told me about this a couple months ago, but then the whole Guatemala thing happened really quickly. I was thinking: "no big deal" for the first couple weeks, but then, one fateful day (4 days ago), I was sitting under a tree atop a hill at the Mayan ruins in Tikal, trying to decide whether or not to make the trip to visit family. So, I made a pros-and-cons list about taking this trip, and things just fell in to place: the "pros" were about Love and the "cons" were about Fear. Maybe it was the ancient energy, or the nature, or the solitude, but my mind felt clear, and my decisions seemed right. Love over Fear.

So I came home from Tikal, bought my plane ticket, and told my Guatemalan family that I was leaving the next night. This spontaneousness (spontaneity?), of which this is an example, is a part of myself that I have always known I've had, but have not really exercised sufficiently in my self-deemed uber-predictable previous-life. It's not that I thrive on shaking things up (I won't lie, I do like it, though) -- it's that when I make a decision, I'm ready to do it right then and there, and unless I can think of a "why" to postpone, I'll just make my move. So, overnight bus from Peten to Guate, chicken bus to Antigua, two nights there, hopped on a plane from Guate, and here I am: drinking mojitos in the Miami airport, listening to "No Scrub", of all songs. 

So is this the end of my journey? Hellz no. As a new friend put it: it's not even a new chapter, it's only a new paragraph. I have only just begun to find out what it is that I want to do. What I do know, is that I will never "figure it out"; I'll never "find what I'm looking for". The figuring-it-out *is* what I'm looking for; the process *is* the answer. Like a mathematician who spends his whole life trying to prove a theorem, it's the question that drives me, but it's the thinking about the question that I enjoy, not the  solution.

I have not booked my flight back to Guate, yet, but I know that I'm going back there, and soon. The point of my spending a few days in Antigua was to give myself enough temptations to come back; cause it's where I really want to be right now. What do I want to be doing? I think I have an idea, at least for the near future, and that is: TEFL -- Teaching English as a Foreign Language. I was bitten by the teaching bug while teaching at the school in that low-income neighborhood in Peten. It's challenging, rewarding, and at the end of the school year, the students have a whole new branch of options and choices grafted onto their lifestream-tree. How cool is that, am I right?

Why do I want to get a TEFL certification? For my 3 weeks in Peten, I enjoyed teaching, and I think I did an OK job, but I taught: numbers, alphabet, and vowels (long, short, open, etc.). After that, I had no idea what to do. And in my opinion, that's just not fair to the kids. Sure, some is better than none, but a lot is better than some. So there's a 4-week, 150hr, intensive, hands-on TEFL course offered in Antigua. The idea is that after those 4 weeks, I would know what-the-hell I'm doing in a classroom and be able to actually help these kids break the cycle of poverty through education. I would also be able to charge a decent rate to rich people's kids for private tutoring, which would help subsidize my time that I am donating to those who can't pay. 

Turns out that even though I came to this conclusion on my own, it is definitely not an original idea. In fact, as soon as I really decided to do TEFL, I ran into a couple at a bar who are doing what I want to be doing, which is very much like what Buenas Cosas is doing as well. She runs a school / library for kids up the hill in a poor neighborhood. She's trying to put together a shared curriculum with other teachers in other poor neighborhoods in the area. Why is that important?

She explained her efforts this way: take a normal EFL (English as a Foreign Language) textbook. Well, first of all, there are really no books to be found, in any classes, for any subject. Price prohibitive. OK, but say you could just buy one, and teach out of that. The subjects that you are teaching are not really relevant to these kids. Eating out a restaurant? I did not eat in a restaurant for the whole time I was in Peten. What subjects do they need to know instead? That's what she and her other associates are trying to figure out. The ultimate goal would be that volunteers who come to her school for a week or three could use this curriculum to pick up where other volunteers left off. That's exactly what I want to do for the school I taught at in Peten. 

But I go a step further -- I am a computer scientist, and as such, for every problem, I envision a technological solution. To me, this situation is just begging for a wiki-style, open-source, modular design where any teacher anywhere could give-and-take lesson plans, worksheets, pointers, etc. on how to teach English to children in poor neighborhoods in Guatemala. But why stop there? Spanish-speaking countries do not have a monopoly on underprivileged children who want to learn English. They exist in Chinese, Hindi, and other languages as well. Teaching English to speakers of different languages requires specialization. For example, there is no "th" sound in Spanish, so it requires its own lesson plan. Or, as another example, I know from having an Indian friend, that in Hindi, the "w" and "v" sounds are mixed up (wegetables).

OK, so open-source curriculum for teaching English to children all around the world. I guess that's a pretty big goal; a decent place to start. But, as I said earlier, I'm a computer scientist, and for me, there's just not enough technology involved yet. One reason that I like developing for the web or for mobile is that all of my efforts can be multiplied infinitely; to have one person use your website or app requires a bunch of effort; but every person after that is (almost) entirely free. This is an important concept for me, because I realize that I, as a person, am not scalable. I can not be in every school in Peten, or Guatemala, or Central America, or the world. But software can. And to me, that's cool.

So I'm seeing this much like an open-source Rosetta Stone. Screw that $400-per-level bullshit. Language learning, at least at some basic level, should be both free (libre) and free (gratis). The problem I saw in Peten was that while the teachers there could teach the students vocab (nouns, verbs, etc.), their pronunciation was way off. Why? Because they themselves can't speak English. And that's a problem. I met a chick from Columbia who said that, for English, she listens and reads better than she can speak and write. It's because of our uncertainty. Giving confidence to students is a huge priority.

OK, so how do we get an English-language learning app into the hands of every kid in Guatemala? Well, you could start by getting a tablet into every school. Sounds expensive, right? What's the Nexus 7 cost, like $300? Yipes. Luckily for us gringos who want to bring technology into the modern-day classroom, a group of visionaries started solving this problem many years ago, and have just now reached their solution: a $40 tablet that is sold directly to governments for the exact purpose of bringing technology into underprivileged neighborhoods. Cool, right? Thanks, guys!

So here's a brief recap of everything: I'm going back to Antigua Guatemala to get my TEFL. I'm going to be working with the school(s) around the city while I'm there. After that, I can either hang in Antigua, or head somewhere else (Lake Atitlan is calling my name). During all of this, I am setting up the technology to collaboratively create an open-source curriculum. Once that is coming along, next would be an open-source app to let students practice listening, speaking, reading, writing, etc. Once that is coming along, it would be necessary to demo to the Guatemalan government, and get them talking with the guys selling the $40 tablet, so we can start rolling out that phase. End goal: every student in Guatemala who wants to learn English can do it interactively through technology. No human capital issues. Infinitely scalable. Win win win.

So: Why? It's about grafting a new branch onto their lifestream/tree. But not really grafting -- because the opportunities and choices that they will be able to have once they have the ability to communicate in an international language. It's about helping them break the cycle of poverty through education. It's really about helping people help themselves. And in the end, that's what's important to me. Everything else is just money.

So here I am, in the Miami airport, drinking mojitos, writing about my (and others') grand scheme to make life just a little bit better for a few people. That's what's next. Right now is mojitos, family, and a quick hiatus from my new life. Cause when I get back to Guatemala, that's when the real work begins.

En serio.



