---
 layout: post
 title: Illegal Immigrant
---

I have always been very organized regarding my music. There's a certain
folder and filename format that I use to be able to quickly find what
I'm looking for on my computer. I even once went through my entire album
list and edited the ID3 tags one time -- the ones that give the artist name,
album name, song name, etc. -- which took for EVER. It was a very OCD
thing to do, meaning: it was a repetitive task organizing items that
brought me much joy as I went along. I probably spent weeks if not
months of a couple hours a night. Dedication, or disease?

I recently transfered a lot of my songs onto my phone (because
very few of the Columbians approve of my choice of music haha). I also
got a lot of new songs from them -- stuff I honestly like, just I don't
normally say "Oh, hey, let's listen to Calle 13 or Cultura Prof√©tica".
I've been told that's just because I don't understand the meaning of the
songs (both linguistically and culturally). Hopefully someday. =)

The overall effect, though, is that my once-organized music device is
now overrun with artists and albums that have not been properly
categorized. Indeed, now it's difficult to find the music that I am
looking for because I need to scroll through random misnomers. And don't
even get me started on the unfortunate phenomenon of listening to a
certain song by a certain band (let's just say "Under Pressure" by
Queen), and not being able to then find the other Queen songs I have.
Note to self: if you want to maintain your modicum of sanity, dust off
your OCD ID3 skillz and classify that shit.

OCD is actually one of the reasons that I love being a bartender. Once
given the keys (metaphorically as well as literally) to this terrace, I
took ownership and cleaned the place from top to bottom. I threw out
empty liquor bottles, dusted off shelves, and organized the fridge so I
can tell, at a glance, how much of any given item I have at any given
moment. I realized how much I am a natural bartender when, on an
unusually busy night, I was in a non-stop frenzy of serving, recording,
and tidying. I feel like this is my home into which I invite strangers
in order to get to know them, all the while keeping in the forefront of
my mind their comfort, as any good host would do. It's not weird to me
at all to, during a conversation, empty an ashtray, clear an empty beer
bottle, or ask if I can get them something else. In fact, it comes so
naturally that I can't help to *not* do it. I'd do it in my own home, so
I do it here. Naturally.

What I find absolutely hilarious, though, is where I'm doing it, and for
whom. I've mentioned "The Columbians" before, which sounds all dodgy and
shit, right? Columbia is all about drugs, crime, and murders. While I
was here, I somehow stumbled on to thie documentary on "Scopolamine",
aka "Devil's Breath" or "The World's Scariest Drug"
(http://digitaljournal.com/article/324779). Scary shit, right? I think
so. So when I talk about "The Columbians" in such a context, it's with
the greatest love and jest possible. These guys are like family. In
fact, I've talked with them about things that I haven't shared with
anyone else. I've learned a lot about myself while living with and
observing them. Through their actions and words, I've realizied things
about life that I believe I could have only learned in this particular
situation.

The location that I "chose" to camp out for a while, to me, is entirely
absurd. First and foremost, I have to say, on point of pride, that
never, ever, in my life, did I ever plan to go to Machu Picchu. The
first time I ever remember hearing of it is when my mom told me about
the trip she was going to take here. Peru, you say? OK... if that's what
you want... Doesn't interest me in the least. Yet, as way leads to way,
I find myself here. When I first arrived, I said to my friend (who,
officially, was my guide): I think I need to stay here an extra day,
because this place looks interesting. Do you think I might be able to
work here? Two days later, I found myself
forfeiting my train ticket back to my flight back to The States. Two
days later, I find myself switching hostels to where I am now. No sooner
than I walked in the door, I proclaimed to myself: I am home.

After putting (some of) my shit in my locker in my posh room, I went
downstairs and asked the people working here at the time: Are you guys
hiring? They said that they were moving on in a week or so, and that
they could talk to the owners for me if I wanted. Nah, I'll figure it
out. And so I waited, and meanwhile comfirmed to myself that this was
indeed a place I would enjoy staying at. In the following days, I found
myself living -- that is to say, simply enjoying life as it came. I
talked to locals; I met tourists (and new friends) just arriving; I
talked with local business owners over a meal or a drink about what they
want in the future, and how I might fit into it.

It wasn't until a few days afterwards that people started realizing that
I wasn't just here as a pitstop. And that's when things changed. One
day, I was just sitting in the lobby charging my phone (I didn't have my
computer -- or most of my other stuff, for that matter), and the owner
said he needed to step out for a few minutes -- and could I sit at the
desk for a little bit? Sure, no problem. In the next 15 minutes, the sky
fell (as Chicken Little would say). In that short span of time, I
received a purchase order bill which I had to pay (100 soles? Umm...
OK... opens-lock-box). I had a group of 15 people arrive who needed to
be checked in and shown to their rooms; and I ended up having to figure
out logistics like charging for towels, waters, sodas, and other
odds-and-ends (luckily it's posted on the wall, so all I needed to do
was check the sign). 

That night, the owner went back to Cusco for a business trip, so we were
short-staffed. I was asked if I could help with the bar. Uh, sure, but
you know that I don't know anything about bartending, right? No problem,
it's easy -- just give people beer when they ask for it, and write it
down in this book. That night, because of the group of 14 people, was
the busiest night that I have seen on record (and believe me, I flipped
back through the books). But, in all modesty, I believe that was
partially because I was present. I was there, not as a bartender, but
merely as a compatriate who had only been here a few days myself, but if
they wanted a beer, I could get it for them. As a result, we had more
conversation (in English, mind you), a longer night, and more embibed than perhaps would
otherwise have been possible given a different situation which more
closely mirrored my personal experience the first time I went in to this
bar -- of trying to converse with someone I can't understand, feeling
awkward, and leaving after just one beer. So the mood of welcoming and
inviting and trying to converse with people in their own language (I
don't mind acting the fool) -- that I continually try to foster;
not as an outsider, but as someone who is a traveler, just like them,
who can be in a position to help and make them comfotable in whatever way I can.

The most positive aspect of my situation is that it is exactly what I am
looking for. Wait, what? I get to have conversations with tonnes of
people from all countries, from all walks of life, in various languages,
with different experiences to learn and to share. I get to meet new
people, assume the best of them, and then learn about my own worldview
by talking and listening to persons in rapid succession. As a Computer
Scientist, I have to reference the concept of Simulated Annealing, where
you develop a heuristic of the underlying function through the use of a
mixture of hill-climbing and randomization. Here, I get to find a shared
topic of interest with someone new every night, learn about it, then go
on to something and someone new the next night.

So I'm in a ridiculous situation, both with whom I'm working (a great
bunch of guys), and where I'm working (I'm watching the fog move in like
a train through the valley), and what I'm doing (I'm a godamn Computer
Scientist slinging cervezas). Do I want to stay
here forever? Probably not. Do I have ideas of what I want to do next?
Yeah. Tonnes. But for fuck's sake, I'm happy; and this is the first time in a
long that I can say that with any semblance of honest conviction. So I'm going to try
my best to live this life until it comes to a natural death. 

The funny thing? I'm an "illegal alien" here. My tourist visa expired
weeks ago (no worries: it's just $1/day overstay fee); and I have no
idea about what work visas entail (I haven't been paid anything by
anyone; I'm just a friend who's been here for a while and helps out with
things). But doesn't that throw the American concept of "illegal
immigrant" into perspective? If it doesn't now, I'll let you know if (or
when) I get into some trouble for being here and simply living. Perhaps
it takes knowing someone personally affected by stupid, nationalistic,
counterproductive fine-print to understand how utterly abhorrant it is.

In the mean time, check out the "Define American" movement. I hope it
means as much to you as it does to me:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TJH1IKqF8PA

Peace, Love, and Buenas Cosas.

