---
layout: post
tags:
 - blawg
title: Such Duck
---

As the bearded gringo here in Peten, I am quite used to the reality that whenever I open my mouth, I am most likely going to make a fool of myself. That is something that I accept as a baseline. I count as a win any time that proves an exception to the rule; so far, the tallies are pretty one-sided. There is a certain grace which comes from being so subperior so often. For me, this grace comes in the form of being able to lower the bar of my usual perfectionist tendencies and simply be glad when I am able to convey at least 75% of my intended concept. In school, that would be close to a failing grade; but here, when combined with general intuition and the patience of these great Petenitza people, I am usually pleased with the outcome -- and with myself.

Knowing just how difficult it is to communicate in another language, I am even-more-so patient with people when they use English. Actually, patient is not quite the word for it: people communicating in English here makes me feel safe; like the eye of a hurricane. I will hang on a single phrase someone uses like "such duck", trying to figure out its intended meaning, even if it is completely nonsensical. Context, it seems, is often key to this endeavor.

I took a trip to the caves here in Peten that traverse a huge swath of the region, connecting towns like Flores, Santa Elena, and San Benito through an underground network of tunnels and caverns. Kilometers upon kilometers of this geological phenomenon have been explored and utilized for millennia, from the Maya of lore to their modern-day ancestors. Of course, the latter use them mostly as a way to score a few dozen Q from touristas. In fact (and this was a first for me), the pricing scheme differs for "locals" vs. "international" customers, yet another example of the way in which gringos are discriminated against here in Guatemala.

There are three ways to experience the caverns here in Peten. The "normal" (tourista) way is where a guide leads you around on safe paths, shining flashlights on certain sections of the room, with you ooh-ing and ahh-ing at mineral formations that look like elephants, snakes, and horse heads, while he describes what we all learned in 7th grade: that caves like these take a really, really long time to form.

The cheapest way is to go it alone and trust that you can navigate the labyrinth of seemingly-identical rooms, through situations where even guides have been known to get lost, completely entrusting your life and well-being to your own wits and your $3 LED flashlight. Who in their right mind would head into the cave by themselves? I assumed that option on the pricing menu was meant for professional spelunkers and as a jumping-off point for up-selling tourists to the guided offerings.

The third (and for me only) option is to have a guide take you through the system, off the beaten path, up the steep ascents, through the human-sized holes, past the point of no-return. In this last case, you are still entrusting your well-being to something, but in this case, that something has years of experience and its own desire to come out alive; not to mention, you could probably demand a refund if you died, in which case you also have the all-powerful profit motive on your side as well: ensuring your safe regress, or your money back!

As we made our way through the underground system, it became increasingly obvious how many people take option #2 and come into these caves without a guide. The first clue was happening upon a group of 4 teenage boys who were just hanging out there in the caves. We later agreed that, due to their strange behavior and state-of-being, they must have been on drugs (the most popular guess being mushrooms). When we rounded the corner, they were clinging to the walls, potentially hoping that our flashlights would not light upon them; or maybe that if they closed their eyes and stayed really still, they could become one with the cave walls. Who knows. After our guide realized they had not paid the entrance fee to come into the caves without a guide (a whole $2), he proceeded to give them a 15 minute lecture on how he could call the cops on them but didn't want any trouble, so they should just get out.

We happened upon them while we were still in the "normal" tourist area, somewhere around the hand-painted sign indicating the group of stalactites called "The Doorway to Heaven". Or were they stalagmites? I still don't know the difference, though I am sure it was explained to me -- albeit in Spanish. While they were still in a relatively "safe" area (we had yet to do any serious spelunking), it still took me aback that they had come this far by themselves, presumably to do drugs.

Yet as we progressed, although we did not see any additional human bodies, we did continue to see evidence of human presence -- and I'm not talking Maya. We would come out of climbing up a 50 foot, 60 degree inclination, completely slippery with perma-mud, and find a lone AA battery. Or, after crawling elbow-over-elbow through a hole that I would never have looked at and said "Hey! That looks like a good idea!", we would find a shoelace. Gratefully we did not find any potato chip bags or beer cans.

However, one distinct human effect was present in every single room we visited: graffiti. Indeed it became so obviously ever-present that we joked that if we were to come upon a room *without* spray paint on the walls, chances were better than even that we had either gotten lost, or we simply hadn't yet shone our lights on all the surfaces of the room that could be tagged. It's funny because it's sad, because it's true: people risked their lives to deface a natural treasure. And not just one or two people, just once or twice, but a whole bunch of people, a whole bunch of times. And not just risking life like tagging a wall in a competing gang's hood, but venturing kilometers into the darkness, accepting the possibility that from their mission they might never return. And not just defacing a natural treasure like carving your name into a giant sequoia which is hundreds of years old, but spraying permanent paint on the surface of rocks that outdate the existence of man.

I would like to say that I get the no-doubt multifaceted "why"s behind the multiplicity of decisions that led to the multitudinous instances of graffiti in that cave: maybe it is just good ol' fashion desire for longevity (so-and-so was here); maybe it was peer pressure or a rite of passage (you're a pussy if you don't); maybe it was to show off for someone (so-and-so likes so-and-so); maybe it was a philosophical statement (we all are defiling these caves together by our trekking through them; my graffiti only makes that reality more in-your-face); or maybe it is a giant middle-finger, composed of spray paint, pointed straight at any tourists, like me, who think that by straying from the "normal" path, we will experience something genuine and special -- something that only this region can provide. Maybe what all this spray paint was really saying was: go home, gringo, these caves belong to the Petenitza.

As I said earlier, I feel that while I am here in a different country, with a different culture, trying my best to speak a different language, I feel that I am in no place to judge what others do or say. But as I also said, my interest is often piqued when people use English here; which brings me back to the original phrase I was trying to decipher.

In the context of being graffitied on a cave wall in Guatemala, the meaning becomes much clearer in my opinion: "such duck".




