---
 layout: post
 title: Plans
---

I'm staring at the most majestic mountain range ever which is currently mysteriously shrouded in low-hanging clouds which leak a fine misty rain over this town of Machu Picchu. Today was a day of taking it easy; but then again, so far I have
not had any particularly hard days here. Not that I have not had incredibly busy days, working from the
moment I wake up till when I go to bed; but whether because of novelty
or because of a good fit, my efforts have been driven by joy. I feel at home.

In the moments like this where I am inbetween actions and have time for
reflection, I sometimes think back on my past with a sense of nostalgia. A decade
is a good round number; I use it when, in the increasily rare cases, I
share one of my most-guarded secrets: that I am divorced. I don't know
if the papers have gone through or not (and I am not sure if I'll be
notified or not when they do); but now, in my fourth month of being away from her, I
am starting to crack the lid bit by bit and let everything that I locked
up begin to escape. Like opening a soda bottle that has been dropped, I
am wary of a potentially messy explosion of memories and emotions.

Listening to this album is one of the things which evokes vivid visions
of a different place and time. Juxtaposed as it is against my current
surroundings, these recollections feel slightly surreal, like
discussing a movie that you just finished watching: you remember the
plot, and can imagine the sequences of images flashed at 48fps -- but
the experience itself is over, and can never be re-lived again as for
the first time. Also like a movie, the more times you re-watch your
favourite parts, the more you are able to recall the minute details,
but the less you are able to appreciate the subjective experience of
getting swept into the plot -- like a scratch and sniff that has been
scratched repeatedly until there is no scent left.

I am jealous of my favourite memories of us; I am grateful to be able to
cherish the positive aspects of our past. But no more am I deluding
myself with hopes of our paths crossing again. That white lie was
comforting for me not long ago: it was necessary to be able to do what
I did. No longer. Radio silence has been maintained for a month now, per
her wishes. Two things I realized before embarquing on this second leg
of my journey: first, that I vowed never to hurt her ever again; and
second, that in order to accomplish that goal, I need to remove myself
as completely as possible from her life. It is not that I by my actions
might hurt her; but rather that my mere presence -- whether physical,
emotional, or digital -- causes her distress.

I did a selfish thing a month ago, though, right as I was leaving: for
my own benefit, I needed to say one more
thing before I dropped off her radar. I cried while I was writing it,
and I am starting to tear up now as I remember the experience. Sitting
in the airport, as my plane was boarding, about to start a journey that I
realized meant I would never see her again, I wrote this:

>Hey. I know you want radio silence, but I just wanted to say one more thing: thank you. I know we had good times and bad times, but I just want you to know that all I have is gratitude for the times we got to spend together and the experiences we shared. It makes me very glad to know you're doing well, and makes me emotional to hear that you wish the same for me. So thanks. I love you and wish nothing but what's best for you. Take care of yourself; have good times; be well.

I boarded the plane with tears in my eyes (I'm sure the flight
attendents were quite puzzled); I sat down in my seat; and I let it all
go: our past, our present, and our future. So here I am, a month later, remembering the good times, forgiving both
myself and her for our bad times, and recognizing that the life we were
sharing is now and forever over. I'm sojourning through this human
experience alone, now. I can be, do, or say whatever I want without
having to think of someone else.

For some people, they might use the word "liberating". By that, they
might point out that I now have license to do anything and
everything under the sun -- go out every night, get drunk, fuck a bunch
of random people, destroy myself, waste my time and energy on dead end
pursuits, and excuse it all by getting angry and saying "Who the fuck
are you to judge? You don't know me."

I may have the license to be solipsistic, narcissistic, and nihilistic,
but I choose not to -- that's not who I am, and that's not what I
believe life is about. In fact, this new type of life I am leading is
filled with more responsibility than I had before. Even though there is
only me to think about and take care of, I am also the only one doing
it.

I was having a version of this discussion at 4am
last night, yelling over the deafening music at the discotek, and was
able to enunciate in Spanish what I believe: that life is not only about
"eat, drink, and be merry" (though that is for sure important); to me,
it's about learning and teaching; receiving and giving; being grateful
and being generous. Always I try to keep in the front of my mind my
belief that we are all connected; and this is why I cannot pretend as
though I am a cartesian actor in a sea of automatons.

No, a high school teacher of mine had it right: life is about
relationships. Here in MaPi, those relationships may only last for two
days, one night, before the other person (sometimes reluctantly)
continues on their journey. The duration is not the important part; it's
whatever time we get to spend talking and laughing; learning and
sharing. As a very wize wizard once said: "All we have to decide is what
to do with the time that is given to us." In my worldview,
that means findinding my bliss. And more
than any time and place in my life, I feel like I have found it here and
now.

The clouds are parting. The sun is coming out. And the scenery is being
uncovered gradually to reveal the natural beauty that has been there all along,
waiting for the right time to show itself. I am starting to get to know myself
as a personality separate from my now-ex-spouse. And what I've realized
is: I'm me. I've always been me. Just now I'm me in a different place,
under different circumstances, doing different things. There are things
about myself that I might have either underrated or tried to
ignore in the past, but I am no longer running from my true self.
Otherwise I would be completely alone.

All I'm going to say about that is: I'm legitimately happy with who I
am, where I am, and what I'm doing. As another very wise high school
teacher used to ask: "Is there any place else you'd rather be right
now?" I can honestly answer: no, no there isn't. This is just perfect
for me for now. I'll know it's time to leave when I look up at the
glorious mountains surrounding me and no longer feel that sense of awe
which erases any fear or negativity which might be floating around in my
head. Until then, I have no plans; only precious memories of the past, and things
to do in the now.

I could not ask for anything more.
